under ten sack race 1968 first runner up
we all receive our fair share of
accolades and awards in our lives but it
is a rare few who are honored with the
title Royal Institute of British
Architects house of the year so who will
it be in 2019 we're on the home straight
visiting the last group of outstanding
buildings on the long list that are
straining every sinew to take home the
big prize I think this is magnificent
it's a magical thing six homes have made
it to the shortlist so far brilliant
great today we're looking at the last
fire from the longest grouped together
under the theme of materials and
craftsmanship
oh that's glorious thing like a
sculpture later in the show we'll find
out which of them will bag the remaining
place on the shortlist from up here the
vault is really something special isn't
it then at the end of the programme
we'll find out which houses scooped the
great title
so join us as we size up the last few
remaining contenders for the our IBA
House of the Year 2019 on your mark get
set go
so far the homes that have made the
house of the Year shortlist have ranged
from the magnificent and the monumental
to the delightfully compact there are
two experimental houses neatest farm a
playful exploration of history and the
meticulously crafted pocket house then a
pair of homes that melt into their
surroundings the nature lovers
restorative rural retreat and the
shadowy black house and then two
down-to-earth projects secular retreat
powerful and geological and house
lessons a modern farmhouse in this
program we'll be looking at a group of
homes that explore materials and
craftsmanship sell more exotic and
finally dress like Italian princesses
others are more directs local characters
whose materials speak authentically of
the place they're from but whether it's
copper concrete stone or timber there's
nothing that's not beautifully honed or
buffed in this well-crafted Bunch our
first buffed house is found in the
metropolis the posh bit in this very
upmarket London neighborhood there is
down the street the very new upmarket
house rich in invention and materials
this very fine Greek Revival house is
not in nope to find it I got to lead you
up the garden path
oh yeah wow that doesn't disappoint
that's glorious thing like a sculpture
this is housed in a garden it's
funnel-like roof rising between the
buildings that surrounded on all sides
this overlooked little spots used to
have a 60s bungalow on it when it came
onto the market it caught the eye of the
architect Jenny Botsford who handedly
lives upstairs after 15 years we found
it came off sale and thought we should
really do something with her to deal
with this tricky location I think Jenny
took inspiration from an iceberg the
funnel is just the tip of a three storey
mainly subterranean home the lowest
level is eight meters below ground with
a swimming pool yoga room and a living
space one floor up and still underground
is the master bedroom guest room and
bathrooms and two deep and very
necessary light wells on the ground
floor are the lids of the two light
wells and the kitchen and living space
it's all chopped off with that funnel
roof reaching out of the shadows like a
flower it's offset shape whirs computer
models to follow the path of the Sun
bring in light and afford privacy from
the houses that overlook it this is an
exquisitely crafted building the are IBA
judges admired of the quality and
refinement of materials and deafness of
detail and you are you I'm good thanks
great beautiful copper on the roof well
it's such difficult shape to make we
needed a material as malleable that you
can do that with and it just bends as it
needs me the copper cupboard roof maybe
redolent of 1960s churches inside
however it's all Cathedral fan vaulting
and wow that that that is remarkable
this is an absolute marvel that view of
the sky is amazing isn't it I'm just
completely you just kind of get
mesmerized yeah
what's make me do is lie down yes do
that yeah you know I I like like
underneath donors yeah and this is like
it's oh heavens yeah it's better it's a
satisfied like underneath the Dome of
the pantheon that's a good one you like
that yeah the project was financed by a
property investment company who bought
into Janus high spec range of pleasingly
tactile materials a bespoke copper
kitchen crying out for some fingerprints
behind which sits a flight of stairs
lined with huge fluted tiles made of
Carrara the Italian marble from which
Michelangelo carved David did you go to
the quarry and choose a we did yeah
it's an extravagant thing to do isn't it
I mean it is and it isn't me if you
think about this in 50 years time it
will be exactly like this I think
January the materials here we've thought
of in those terms it's kind of not now
but over time what they yeah you made a
really good case for it it's very
compelling that's they're gonna do it
properly the first floor below ground
level contains the guest in master
bedrooms where the exquisite selection
of materials continues a lot of beauty
here this is an entirely timberland room
yeah with an enormous metal box in it
they're like walk in industrial fridges
these because of the stainless material
but actually that they're so Oh mirrored
behind exquisite stuff not out of a
catalogue could never be of course the
ensuite is also marble light fit for a
visiting Roman demigod and with a view
into the light well that runs down
through the house so this is the hanging
garden from upstairs which now makes its
way down here and below as well
the huge deep hole needed to make this
house was made possible thanks to the
basement contractor Phil Monday but
depth wasn't his biggest problem
it was access to the site walking down
here brings back a lot of bad memories
of having to logistically get everything
in and out of this project so everything
had to fit in this one point one meter
wide area so less than five foot and so
what we actually created was a triple
storey scaffold conveyor belts remove
200 lorry loads of Earth from this site
they had to use mini excavators that
could squeeze into the gap or
piledrivers that had to be disassembled
and brought in in pieces everything
moved at a snail's pace we could have
finished this basement in two months but
in fact because of all the constraints
that were put upon us it took 14 months
for us to construct this basement but on
reaching the lowest level with a living
room and leisure facilities I can't help
but think Phil's extra year in this hole
was well worth it another extraordinary
large beautiful room with a pool
yes well yeah as you would you need a
pool so how light is it I mean look it's
no it's 10 plus 5 yeah it's got a little
bit cloudy what if I turn the light out
yeah but it's beautiful and it's a very
different experience again yeah very
different
this is magnetically an appeal this is
and then you swim towards that light
quite a few aspects on this house where
you're taken away from things you're
used to and experience something new yes
one you know being in a marble line pool
with this kind of very concentrated
light it's not every day is it you do
that
so you everything to yourself I will
never ever be able to live in a place as
beautiful as this well neither will I
then that doesn't matter
because throughout history people who
put up buildings to be to be
inspirational to be exemplars to shows
the way for it and just occasionally
people have put up buildings as
idealized as this to simply take our
breath away
coming up the final four contenders for
the our IBA
house of the Year 2019 oh my goodness
that is magnificent I mean you have a
complete ribbon of window wrapping
around your entire house oh the three
little piggies I always felt sorry for
the one who was building his house out
of sticks he was most unfairly derided
against his choice of materials timber
has often been the first and the best
choice of material in buildings ever
since we left the caves of course not
all wooden houses are created equally
for the next long listed house the
design expert and writer machello Gunda
him is among some slightly bigger sticks
the Oaks of Chevis Thorne Barton in
Devon there are four hundred and forty
species of oak here so it's probably the
largest oak Arthur Rita in the world it
was started by Michael Hess Kurt amery
and when his daughter Jessica came to
build a house here it could only be made
of one thing wood
this jolly wooden wedge lined with a
timber interior with an eye level set a
tree height his greenhouse now home to
Jessica her husband Jason and their two
children Jonah and Isadora it's even
built on the site of an old wooden
prefab just before my father died he
gave us the house and the surrounding
fields at the beginning stages of the
design process Jesse's father was
involved
it's very sad he didn't get to see the
end product hello nice to meet you it's
a bear it is as he approached it's
beautifully concealed by all these
gorgeous trees that's one of the things
the architect wanted to do most was to
create something that fits the landscape
and it looks like you're quite high up
and it feels quite sort of treehouse
like
unlike a tree house greenhouse has been
built on 30 concrete piles to stop it
sliding down the slope on the lower
ground floor built into the hill or two
bedrooms and a family room then on the
upper ground floor there's a TV room at
the back of the house then the entrance
hall leading to an open-plan living
dining area on the upper floor are two
more bedrooms with bathrooms and a
double height space looking down onto
the dining area
and the whole thing has been coated in
larch that's slowly turning silver apart
from where it's been protected from the
Devon weather you can see that feels a
bit like a Sawyer in here but there are
no sweaty men in small towels this is a
light and elegant space the Maine middle
floor of the house a wedge of a room
that opens out into an amazing 270
degree window oh my goodness that is
magnificent I mean you have a complete
ribbon of window wrapping around your
entire house you now really get that
sense of thing up in the treetops don't
you that giddy sense of height is
mirrored above your head where the
ceiling part gives way to avoid that
extends right up to the apex of the
building the staircase leads to the
delightful balcony and library above we
felt it needed to be opened up a bit and
as it happens it works really well it
means that these rooms up here are
interconnected and you get a real sense
of who's in the house and and you feel
quite together as resolving the glazed
middle for cuts across the building like
the filling in a house sandwich but
these are the only views to be found on
the upper floors the bedrooms enjoy
corner views for the children or for the
adults to enjoy a soap while losing
themselves in the leaves
on the lower level the playroom and
spare bedrooms have slot windows with
ground-level views and if you're not
worried about a Vista then head to the
narrowest point of the building and it's
cozy den the our IBA jury said that
greenhouse abounds with character and
personality the personality behind it is
the architect David Shepherd who was
long listed for his own house Cobb
corner in 2017 he's a man with a
singular vision and a deep love of all
things
timber what is the best sustainable tear
of you can have on a building so we
minimized steel minimized the concrete
max myosin wood the interior has oak
flooring birch ply wood shelving beech
stairs and Douglas fir door frames the
outside is clad in larch which David
wanted cut into narrow strips for
variation for the Carpenters David's
Kelly and Daniel Acton he was as
demanding as a cabinet maker specifying
five angled cuts on every length of
timber so if that's the bottom piece you
have a compound miter on the bottom with
a 45 so that's two cuts on that 1/3 cut
there an expansion joint in there but
yeah it was a lot of cutting involved a
lot of fixing involved and there's I
think we worked out eight miles of
timber that added up to three months
just spent cutting and fixing the
cladding I think clients actually
realized how long it would take and in
fact myself I didn't realize how long it
would take but in natural fat I think
the end result speaks for itself
among all the beautiful detailing and a
variety of Timbers David did manage to
find a place for some particularly
special wood in the dining table and
staircase about five years ago we had a
big storm down here and two big beech
trees fell down my parents house just
down the road
and my father said take it away and
dryer and he might be able to use it in
your house the wood was stored for three
years with a local carpenter and sawmill
owner Warren Hughes who noticed it had
begun to sport developing a delicate
pattern caused by a fungal infection on
the end of the timber we can see that
the fungus is growing on there too the
black on the outside where obviously the
mold is more prolific moldy stairs don't
sound appealing but once it dries out
the fungal infection dies leaving a
delightful pattern of tracery markings
in the wood when the oil goes on it and
it starts to sink into the timber and
enhances all of those marks it's not
uniform it's not perfect doesn't conform
to things but I think this is real
beauty
the resulting stairs and table rightly
formed the centerpieces to this home
under a link to Jessie's father he was
very pleased that we wanted to live here
and have a house here because it was so
important to him and I it's a shame you
didn't get to see the final finished
article but I think he would have I
think he would have liked
this grownup treehouse not only honors
Jess's father's legacy but also
celebrates their mutual love of wood and
with the exacting guidance of their
architects they've created a home that's
completely at one with nature
the something reassuringly old about
stone isn't the most primal most
primordial of building materials
offensively imagine that some antecedent
of mine were skinning a mammoth with
these very Flint's thousands of years
ago stone lends a house a certain
permanence it means it if you build with
stone you better get it right because it
could be around for a very long time I'm
in Monmouth show in South Wales where
the local sandstone has weathered many
of welsh winter and I'm here to see a
new house built from this old stone
that's nice
this is silver how l-shaped and in two
parts the larger newest stone section
and a smaller converted brick barn
it's home to Emma and David and their
daughters Grace and Charlotte on the
inside they needed a modern family house
but externally it had to feel more like
a traditional Monmouthshire building we
wanted to create a property that felt as
if it belonged within this environment
mothers to more sort of cubist type
architecture but it's not California you
know it needs to sit in the plot oh hi
you ever yes i solid so tell me a little
bit about this place because um this is
how old I think 1905 it was built it's
the old coach house - next door so it's
hard to tell which is the younger which
of the older building because that's got
a tile roof and it's painted brick this
is got a metal roof and it's made from
local stone even though they're you know
vastly different materials and it really
you know looks right the are iba judges
light the way silver how mary's the
lightness and transparency of modern
construction with the permanence and
craftsmanship of Monmouthshire quarried
stone and inside the jury praised the
open and flexible spaces and acute
attention to detail the new part of the
building is arranged over three levels
the ground floor has a double height
main living space next to a secluded
stag and office the first floor has
three ensuite bedrooms for the family
and the top floor has two guest bedrooms
and bathrooms
a glass corridor connects to the old
coach house which has a double-height
kitchen with a mezzanine playroom
the interior of this older section has
all the Verve of a modern kitchen garden
restaurant
oh this is lovely and refreshing and
light and spacious they removed a floor
to make this big voltage space fitted
out with a gargantuan wall about
cupboards that in fact hides a utility
room behind and a mezzanine playroom for
the girls up top you can hear them and
they can hear us you know they're toys
are tucked away how to sight yes
although I wish they would bring their
rubbish down and put in the big rather
than just not shit no just can't props
justice to throw things at you yeah so
can I get up oh pretty beautiful lovely
staircase for them nice space great
actually from up here the vault is
really something special isn't it I can
see how tempting it is for them through
in the new part of the building the
rustic stone exterior actually hides a
steel frame that does all the hard
structural work allowing for an
expansive living room and decadent
amounts of glass you can experience the
magic of the outside in and the inside
out this one too and that is that oh
great I said fact the entire wall
disappears
the living room connects upwards as well
as out the chimney-piece reaches up and
past a first floor walkway that leads to
their daughter's bedrooms which in turn
are linked by a shared bathroom and
dressing room this is s mirrors oh my
word what an amazing little optical
illusion that is astonishingly nice I
think I'd be able to sleep in here the
oak trees which frame these views and
surround the entire house are all
subject to root protection orders which
restricted work near them and dictated
the way that the architect Martin Hall
and designer Kelly Bednarik arranged the
building we pretty much had to thread
the plan through a series of route
protection areas and so by creating
these no build zones on the site plan it
sort of actually encouraged us to top
the floor plan we did it took me a while
to convince the cringe factor to take
the project on because he just saw
headaches and complexity with it to
avoid damaging the roots a system of
protective matting was laid over the
heavy traffic areas of the site and then
topped with aggregate to spread the
weight of the diggers and cranes
resulting in a 100% tree survival rate
and a house nestled among the Oaks as if
it's always been there
seems to me that if if you wanna build
something which truly reflects the
history of a place you've got to study
in detail the shapes the angles the
materials of ancient buildings in that
place you've got to understand the
qualities of the rock and how Stone's
layer
you've got to even dig the ground and
see its color in order to be able to
build something as connected to place
and as successful as this
we're nearing the end of the series with
only two of the 20 long listed houses
left to see this is engineering to the
max but which will make the shortlist
and then maybe even go on to win the RI
be a house of the Year for 2019 the
ancient Japanese art of origami involves
folding paper hundreds of times to
create something of exquisite beauty it
takes really special skills to elevate
something simple and ordinary into
something remarkable there it's a Glacia
this is Warwickshire an ordinary Street
with ordinary houses but Damian burrows
is here to see a house that's taken
every day materials and does something
extraordinary with them
this is Ghosthouse finely crafted from
concrete and steel it got its name
because it seems to be peeking out at
its neighbors as if ready to say boo
it's home to a nightclub and bar
entrepreneur who's a big fan of concrete
Steve Smith Dave hi hi do you write
great David
incredible house it's completely
opposite to the rest of the street
absolutely it was always meant to be a
very simple pallet concrete black steel
that's it and Steve's pared back
concrete vision has produced a highly
crafted and unnervingly well-ordered
house reflected in the pools of water
dyed to make a black mirror image the
reflecting ponds were a later edition it
was supposed to initially be a wild
meadow but actually it would by its very
nature be wild and unruly and out of my
control I know what you mean nature
doing its own thing that annoys me as
well Steve's need to control his
environment is evident in the perfectly
symmetrical layout the Riv a jury
admires the meticulously straight board
markings laid out in the concrete the
main floor of ghost house is actually
three meters below ground level at the
back is a courtyard garden then a large
open-plan living area and above is the
master bedroom with a bathroom and
dressing room at the front of the house
there's a sunken entrance courtyard
accessed by stairs surrounded by two
smaller subterranean bedrooms and a home
cinema all under the black pools as you
sink below the black waterline at the
front door it turns out this house is
made of almost honey-coloured concrete
this is so warm it's so inviting it was
a local mix it was a local sand that was
used so there's almost the warmth of a
Cotswold stone within the pour
so it isn't grey or steer concrete okay
in case you were expecting scatter
cushions and doilies through the front
door it's wall-to-wall concrete and
symmetry throughout
there's a passion for concrete I love
the material and it works there isn't
overkill and it's staying true to the
vision and to the belief that we could
create something purely out of concrete
that doesn't feel a stair that doesn't
feel totally brutal that still feels
like a home of course a real home should
feel tailored to its owners passions so
head around the central courtyard and
you find steve's given himself a home
cinema and then there's the spare
bedrooms where he's dedicated to
dressing rooms to his collection of rare
training shoes
this was my indulgence I've collected
sneakers for many many years and this is
an opportunity to be able to show them
all off here what your friends think my
friends love it I can't say the same
about my parents my mother walked out
when she saw this and when I was gonna
grow up but who cares what people think
when it's your own hope you can display
the artwork that makes you happy and
even build yourself a set of mirrored
stairs up to your bedroom
we're here this has been designed so
that if wanted it could be split into
two spaces so wore down the middle all
the services are in again everything
symmetrical around that center point to
create this ode to symmetry written in
concrete
Steve enlisted the architect Philip
Shepherd where did all of this start
involved such as I graduated our
university first real project was to
meet with Steve and he came to the
ambition of I want to build a really
cool contemporary concrete house which
was a very much a challenge for some
newly qualified
to work with Phillip a specialist
concrete contractor John Thompson was
brought in their joint meticulous work
has produced a beautiful finish all the
channels and conduits the wires and
fittings were cast into the concrete
although there was a slight hiccup when
one of the formwork molds gave way mid
pour we had one shorter pop and
unfortunately when Steve was shown his
dad round and he was walking down the
steps and there was a banging oh dear
dear as we're standing chatting the
shutter blue and there was a river of
concrete right across the site odd by my
dad you jinx - absolutely at the very
top where we report it you can see add a
joint but I didn't want to hide it I
didn't want to finesse it it tells a
story of the build
Ghosthouse not only tells the story of
its own construction but that of its
owner it is a container for steve's
tastes and passions not all houses can
do that
concrete is an uncompromising material
but Steve is an even more uncompromising
and driven client his commitment to his
dream coupled with his team's ability to
shape and mold his ideas have created a
beautifully crafted and truly personal
home there is one final house to see
before we find out which of today's five
will make the shortlist then will at
last find out who has won the Riv a
house of the Year for 2019 the crafts
are often unfairly compared to the arts
the the making of the functional item on
one hand as opposed to the truly sublime
on the other
but while the crafted item may not have
the lofty ambitions or the high ideals
of a piece of art it can nevertheless be
as beautiful and as noble plus crafted
objects have the benefit of being useful
as well
the influence of the Victorian Arts and
Crafts movement can be seen here in this
part of suburban North London in the
cottage dormers and chunky chimneys here
but Damien's come to see a house steeped
in 21st century craftsmanship Kenwood
Lee house up front the building echos
the proportions of its polite double
fronted neighbors that round them back
things really start to swing with an
immaculately finished glass box
containing courtyards open stairs and
sunken levels the RI ba judges admired
the skill and enthusiasm with which
exotic and expensive materials have been
deployed throughout the house was
realized by Jo mech a builder for him
and his wife Ivana they both arrived in
the UK from Poland in the mid-90s I got
a job as a decorator painter decorator
so I learned a pretty much every trade I
was on tools for 10 just over 10 years
I'd done some decoration with one that I
can't you know like wallpaper stuff like
that helping you from humble beginnings
to master craftsman Jo make now employs
a hundred people and his firm worked on
house in a garden that we saw earlier as
well as 27 teens nominated Highgate
house but he's finally managed to make
time to build a house of his own
hello how are you oh my God thank you
hello hi to my Center Wow stunning house
thank you very much but the thing that
stands out from the street is the choice
of materials we went through so many
materials and we're really proud of
lithography and that care can be seen in
the frameless glass dormers the
perfectly finished concrete the
Junction's of materials and the tiniest
of brass door details
Kenward li house has a basement level
that contains a sunken carport gym games
room guest rooms and cinema it connects
to the ground floor through a light well
courtyard up to a living and drawing
room at the front of the house and an
open-plan kitchen and dining area at the
back the first floor has four bedrooms
and the top floor their master bedroom
suite
Jonica DeVoe no put everything on the
line by remortgaging the business
premises to finance the project but the
results have been worth it I'm walking
inside here it's just fantastic
level of execution the level of detail
the level of thought is mind-blowing of
course and a lot of long days and nights
designing changing the interior is a
joyous celebration of perfectly selected
and finished materials exemplified by
the massive board Mart concrete-lined
hall designed by Joe meek and navona
with the architects Ben and Jelena
cousins is that the structural core of
the house and it enables the whole house
to to be formed around it with a house
this size a concrete middle could be
dark the way around it just get rid of
some floor the two sides of the house
are connected by bridges with a
staircase which is kind of floating
but floating staircases are not the only
engineering marvels here down in the
basement a ton of glass literally has
been used to make the mother of all
patio doors down here this is
engineering to the max how easy is that
it just glides and the top pane goes as
well the technological basement also has
is the gym spa cinema room and a sunken
carport that straight out of a Bond
villains lair why Mr Burrowes I've been
expecting you
mind you when you're exhausted after a
long day building award-winning houses
you do need somewhere to escape to now
and we're upstairs the master suites I
mean I can see why you put your main
bedroom up here you've got all the views
and all the line out to the back it's a
pleasure to wake up in the morning and
open the curtains all this work that
you've put into it have you ever been
tempted to sell yes I have that's right
we have to agent Cole and asking us to
sell it and I have to say it was quite
tempting all fighting ridiculous money
yeah but we didn't take it he okay yeah
yeah good that's just the thought of
selling his house is very important to
us it is hey we put a lot of effort
enjoy dance and laugh
what shines through in this house is
Jamaican Davone is unrelenting passion
to build a home that never compromises
on quality as real pride in the
craftsmanship here and the results or
they speak for themselves
so there we have it the last five long
listed and lovingly crafted houses that
are vying for a place on this year's
shortlist will it be the sunken temple
to craftsmanship housed in a garden or
greenhouse built as beautifully as a
piece of furniture among the Oaks silver
how a meticulous marriage of the ancient
and modern or ghost house a modernist
love letter to concrete and symmetry or
could it be Kenwood Lee a passionate
labor of love and a hymn to quality John
party chair of the RI bas judging panel
can reveal all what have you short list
of John we've shortlisted one project
which is the green house in Devon so
some lovely setting trees pastures water
and there's its theme in it it's got a
window at the front so you know it's a
house it's got a door at the side Oh but
apart from that you think what why short
list is project its original it's all
quite quirky but actually it works with
the site yeah it creates exciting spaces
it's very involved exquisite woodland
shed it's an incredibly beautiful
woodland shared here
amazing are you solving a bit of a
rollercoaster
yes to have a house that we love as much
as this is great so there you have it
the shortlist is now complete but which
of these will be crowned House of the
Year 2019 nits Hurst farm weaving
historical ideas into modern family life
pocket house squeezing lights and joy
filled spaces into a teeny urban site
restorative rural retreat a tranquil
barn for humans and a nature alike on
the Isle of Man black house a Scottish
shoreline sanctuary that treads lightly
on the place secular retreat an almost
geological building perched atop a hill
house lessons are subtle but delightful
series of quiet sheds in rural Northern
Ireland or green house a lovingly
crafted Timbo wedge nestled into a
wooded hill all exemplary all in with a
chance to win and that winner is well
I'll give you a clue it's not in the
city
well in this year's series there been a
lot of farms a lot of barns a lot of
buildings masquerading as farms and
barns one of them is a winner so which
of our rural wonders is this year's top
dog it's house lessons in County down a
seemingly humble arrangement of two
simple joined buildings but joined and
detailed beautifully and with great care
it's an example of how someone really
clever can take hundra everyday
materials and transform them into
something glorious or for the price of
an average detached house and the clever
clogs behind it is the architect Kieran
McGonagall really I'm thrilled for
everybody concerned and the latest day
I've come to meet Kieran as well as the
owners Sylvia and Michael who
commissioned him to design house lessons
Kieran oh yeah how are you very well you
and my husband might have Michael yeah
congratulations on winning guys humbling
experience just been really unexpected
but we're thrilled
well I sense when we saw his work online
we just really liked just so we never we
never explored another architect who
never went beyond Karen and Kieran more
than proved his worth creating a house
that is a lesson in pragmatic elegance
it's composed of two simple single-story
blocks one with the living room and
kitchen with a mezzanine office above
and one with a single corridor with
three bedrooms of it connecting to a
shared courtyard all this for a budget
of three hundred and fifty thousand
pounds so it's been modest budget so you
spend it depends on your frame of
reference yes certainly not every penny
we have is that's modest it is when the
house looks like it costs twice that
Kyra's genius lay in his orchestration
of inexpensive materials like plain
engineering bricks and concrete his
master stroke was to focus on a single
important Junction one horizontal line
where walls meet the ceilings
everything hits that same horizontal the
white space above is always completely
interruption yes and Abel brings up a
massive scale to the other ways tall
spaces
it's a simple yet mesmerizing device
that yields ethereal white voltage
spaces in every room while a
ground-level all fields human and
practical what I find really disciplined
here so you could have taken those
cupboards bare
you could have sailed right to the
Richer and in future the clan could
increase their stories but for now it's
as much as we can afford so okay so it's
no self-restraint that's forces to
limitless budget Sylvia and Michael did
splash out on the floor though it's a
beautiful terrazzo concrete embedded
with crushed Marvel our client was very
keen on the durability of the
transuranic masters who could be assured
that the trouser withstood tortoise here
I'm yeah they had a tortoise and that
was one of the big concerns about the
floor that it can withstand the
corrosive properties of tortoise or
whether it would stain and actually eat
into the house lessons is disarmingly
modest carefully organized and
enchanting it bewitched the our IBA
judges this was up against some really
heavy hitters so an easy winner to
choose in the no no as you say we're up
against it's David and Goliath at one
level there's some big hitters in there
this one through its modesty and it's
just sheer strength and it's thought and
it's sophisticated elegance I mean I
hope buildings like this give a message
you can do something this could that
cost that's Wow
you know somebody once tell me that a
great idea need cost no more money than
a really bad one this place of course is
testament to that proof that for the
money with which you could buy an
ordinary three-bedroom bland box of a
home you could instead build something
outstanding like this an award-winning
home all you need to do is to follow the
example of Michael and Sylvia find
yourself a great architect like Kieran
and go on this great big architectural
adventure become patrons Commission
something special and make your mark in
the landscape
next Wednesday a new product full of
promise becomes known for disaster and
tragedy Boeing's killer plane asked what
went wrong at 9:00 next tonight children
trapped in a dangerous world exploring
how they got in and why they can't get
out
Britain's child drug runners